Fixed #34146 -- Added 3rd-party lib tutorial step. (#16271)
django/django: docs/intro/tutorial08.txt

the package by running the below command within an activated virtual
environment. This is similar to our earlier step to :ref:`install Django
<installing-official-release>`.

.. console::

    $ python -m pip install django-debug-toolbar

Third-party packages that integrate with Django need some post-installation
setup to integrate them with your project. Often you will need to add the
package's Django app to your :setting:`INSTALLED_APPS` setting. Some packages
need other changes, like additions to your URLconf (``urls.py``).

Django Debug Toolbar requires several setup steps. Follow them in `its
installation guide
<https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html>`_.
The steps are not duplicated in this tutorial, because as a third-party
package, it may change separately to Django's schedule.

Once installed, you should be able to see the DjDT "handle" on the right side
of the browser window when you refresh the polls application. Click it to open
the debug toolbar and use the tools in each panel. See the `panels
documentation page
<https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/panels.html>`__ for more
information on what the panels show.

> Getting help from others

Reviewer: I think it would be better to defer to and/or enhance faq/help rather than duplicate information here. There's already "Where to get help" above... then more tips are given here.

Author: This section was how to solicit help from other people in regards to the toolbar or another third party package. Not necessarily with the tutorial itself.

Reviewer 2: Spaced repetition? 🙂 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spaced_repetition

Joking aside, I kind of liked it: folks don't necessarily see/find that Getting Help link, so having it again didn't feel out of place — but always happy to take a proposal

of an application.

This tutorial will show how to add `Django Debug Toolbar
<https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io>`_, a commonly used third-party
package. The Django Debug Toolbar has ranked in the top three most used
third-party packages in the Django Developers Survey in recent years.

.. admonition:: Where to get help:

    If you're having trouble going through this tutorial, please head over to
    the :doc:`Getting Help</faq/help>` section of the FAQ.

Installing Django Debug Toolbar
===============================

Django Debug Toolbar is a useful tool for debugging Django web applications.
It's a third-party package maintained by the `Jazzband
<https://jazzband.co>`_ organization. The toolbar helps you understand how your
application functions and to identify problems. It does so by providing panels
that provide debug information about the current request and response.

To install a third-party application like the toolbar, you need to install
the package by running the below command within an activated virtual
environment. This is similar to our earlier step to :ref:`install Django
<installing-official-release>`.

>    .. console::
> 
>         $ python -m pip install django-debug-toolbar

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. console::

    $ python -m pip install django-debug-toolbar
```

=====================================
Writing your first Django app, part 8
=====================================

This tutorial begins where :doc:`Tutorial 7 </intro/tutorial07>` left off. We've
built our web-poll application and will now look at third-party packages. One of
Django's strengths is the rich ecosystem of third-party packages. They're
community developed packages that can be used to quickly improve the feature-set
of an application.

This tutorial will show how to add the `Django Debug Toolbar
<https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io>`_, a commonly used third-party

> package. From 2020-2022, the Django Debug Toolbar has ranked in the top three
> most used third-party packages according to the Django Developer Survey (
> `2022 <https://lp.jetbrains.com/to-be-released-yet>`_,
> `2021 <https://lp.jetbrains.com/django-developer-survey-2021-486/#horizontal-bar-chart-109>`_,
> `2020 <https://docs.google.com/forms/d/15GRScagj29AjfFh1Js0ujCEQ2EUqMer5nMB3Fp1KoG8/viewanalytics#21>`_,
> ).

Reviewer 3: Maybe a small rewording which should age better:
```suggestion
package. The Django Debug Toolbar has ranked in the top three most used
third-party packages in recent years.
```

.. admonition:: Where to get help:

    If you're having trouble going through this tutorial, please head over to
    the :doc:`Getting Help</faq/help>` section of the FAQ.

Installing the Django Debug Toolbar
===================================

A useful tool for debugging Django web applications is the Django Debug

> Toolbar. It's a third-party package maintained by the `Jazzband

Author: Thank you for the tip!

<https://jazzband.co>`_ organization. The toolbar helps you understand how your
application functions and to identify problems. It does so by providing panels
that provide debug information about the current request/response.

- Cache panel: Presents you with the cache operations made and the context
  of the executions.
- Profiler panel: Presents you with a `cProfiler
  <https://docs.python.org/3/library/profile.html>`_ summary of the codes
  execution.
- Request panel: Presents you with the headers and body of a request. This
  allows you to determine what values are being sent to the Django application.
- SQL panel: Presents you with all
  the SQL queries made during the lifespan of a request.
- Templates panel: Presents you with the templates used when rendering the
  response and the context used to render them.

> 

Reviewer 3: I'd remove list of panels.

To install a third-party application like the toolbar, you need to install
the package by running the command within an activated virtual environment.
This is like our earlier step of :ref:`installing an official release of
Django <installing-official-release>`.

   .. console::

        $ python -m pip install django-debug-toolbar

.. admonition:: Managing application dependencies

    Managing dependencies is an important part developing an application, but
    it is outside of the scope of this tutorial. Please see the official Python
    documentation regarding `Managing Application Dependencies
    <https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/tutorials/managing-dependencies/>`_

>     for more information.

Reviewer 2: I might drop this admonition: It's one of those _extra info tangents_ that _Tutorials_ are meant to avoid. We already link to `installing-official-release` which is _"the recommended way"_. 

🤔

> Third-party packages that integrate with Django may need some setup.
> Sometimes you will need to add the package's Django app to your
> :setting:`INSTALLED_APPS` setting. `The Django Debug Toolbar has many
> installation steps
> <https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html>`_.
> We're linking to the toolbar's documentation here because as a third-party
> package, it's maintained outside of the core development of Django. This
> allows the package maintainers to make releases outside of Django's release
> schedule

Reviewer 4: Split into two paragraphs - one introducing the concept of setup, the second linking to DDT instructions

```suggestion
Third-party packages that integrate with Django need some post-installation
setup to integrate them with your project. Often you will need to add the
package's Django app to your :setting:`INSTALLED_APPS` setting. Some packages
need other changes, like additions to your URLconf (``urls.py``).

Django Debug Toolbar requires several setup steps. Follow them in `its
installation guide
<https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html>`_.
The steps are not duplicated in this tutorial, because as a third-party
package, it may change separately to Django's schedule.
```

Once installed, you should be able to see the DjDT "handle" on the right side
of the browser window when you refresh the polls application.

Getting help from others
========================

At some point you will run into a problem, for example the
toolbar may not render. When this happens and you're unable to
resolve the issue yourself, there are options available to you.

> #. If the problem is with a specific package, check if there's a
>    troubleshooting of FAQ in the package's documentation. For example the
>    Django Debug Toolbar has a `Tips section
>    <https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tips.html>`_ that
>    outlines troubleshooting options.

Reviewer 4: I think we should mention github issues for DjDT, even if only "search" rather than "report".

```suggestion
#. If the problem is with a specific package, check if there's a
   troubleshooting of FAQ in the package's documentation. For example the
   Django Debug Toolbar has a `Tips section
   <https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tips.html>`_ that
   outlines troubleshooting options.
#. Search for similar issues on the package's issue tracker. Django Debug
   Toolbar’s is `on GitHub <https://github.com/jazzband/django-debug-toolbar/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc>`_.
```

#. Consult the `Django Forum <https://forum.djangoproject.com/>`_.
#. Join the `Django Discord server <https://discord.gg/xcRH6mN4fa>`_.
#. Join the #Django IRC channel on `Libera.chat <https://libera.chat/>`_.

Installing other third-party packages
=====================================

> Another popular third-party package is `Django REST framework
> <https://www.django-rest-framework.org/>`_, also known as "DRF". This is a
> great package to use if you want to use your Django application in a headless
> design where Django only exposes an API while the frontend of your application
> is handled either in a mobile application or a JavaScript application.
> 
> There are many more third-party packages than the Django Debug Toolbar and
> Django REST framework. You can find more third-party packages using the

Reviewer 2: I think I would resist the urge to explicitly name another package here, even one such as DRF (which is ≈_frozen_ now, and who's to say how that evolves over the next cycle). 

Perhaps sufficient is something like: 

```suggestion
There are *many* more third-party packages than the Django Debug Toolbar, and
the other Jazzband projects. You can find more third-party packages using the
```

🤔

Reviewer 4: Same here. I don't think we even need to mention "the other Jazzband"

```suggestion
There are many more third-party packages, which you can find using the
```

Author: Before I commit both of your suggestions, I would like to push back on this a little. Can you explain why we should be avoiding naming DRF explicitly here?

Reviewer 2: Hey @tim-schilling, sure. 

* **General**: We've avoided linking to third-party packages ≈forever because they simple don't meet Django's level of stability, and we don't have capacity to keep maintaining references as the landscape changes. This policy has served Django well. Making an exception for DDT itself here is not done lightly: given its history it's reasonable to think it will be supported for as long as Django itself. (i.e. until the heat death of the universe ⚛️) I cite [JKL's 2010 article on favourite Django packages](https://jacobian.org/2010/nov/1/favorite-apps/) as early datapoint. I think we should be extremely cautious about extending that special licence. 
* **Specific**: DRF, whilst super popular, and very stable, and very reliable, is essentially in maintenance mode. It's not at all clear that it will still be the go-to option in its space even over the lifetime of Django's 5.x series, never mind beyond that. I think, given the general policy against linking to specific external packages, to link to it in a tutorial step at this point in its lifetime would be an error.

Author: Thank you @carltongibson for the explanation, I appreciate it.

> fantastic Django resource, `Django Packages <https://djangopackages.org/>`_.
> 
> - Here's a `grid of development tool packages
>   <https://djangopackages.org/grids/g/developer-tools/>`_.
> - Here's a `grid of packages related to creating APIs
>   <https://djangopackages.org/grids/g/api/>`_.

Reviewer 4: Don't think we even need the list of grids. They're kind of arbitrary starting points, the reader probably doesn't care about more development tools right now, and if we drop the DRF reference, why refer to API's?

```suggestion
fantastic Django resource, `Django Packages <https://djangopackages.org/>`_.
```

> Evaluating third-party packages
> ===============================

Reviewer 4: I think we can combine this we the previous section

```suggestion
```

> It can be difficult to know what third-party packages you should use. This

Reviewer 4: perhaps could insert a reference to the data that django packages shows? it can help evaluate.

Author: I'm unsure what you mean. By reference do you mean a line describing a grid from django packages?

Reviewer 2: @adamchainz Do you have a specific edit here? (I'd have just headed to your post given this paragraph...) 🤔

Reviewer 4: see below

depends on your needs and goals. Sometimes it's fine to use a package that's
in its alpha state. Other times, you need to know it's production ready.
`Adam Johnson has a blog post

> <https://adamj.eu/tech/2021/11/04/the-well-maintained-test/>`_ that outlines

Reviewer 4: aw thanks for the link ☺️

=====================================
Writing your first Django app, part 8
=====================================

This tutorial begins where :doc:`Tutorial 7 </intro/tutorial07>` left off. We've
built our web-poll application and will now look at third-party packages. One of
Django's strengths is the rich ecosystem of third-party packages. They're
community developed packages that can be used to quickly improve the feature-set
of an application.

This tutorial will show how to add the `Django Debug Toolbar
<https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io>`_, a commonly used third-party
package. From 2020-2022, the Django Debug Toolbar has ranked in the top three
most used third-party packages according to the Django Developer Survey (
`2022 <https://lp.jetbrains.com/to-be-released-yet>`_,
`2021 <https://lp.jetbrains.com/django-developer-survey-2021-486/#horizontal-bar-chart-109>`_,
`2020 <https://docs.google.com/forms/d/15GRScagj29AjfFh1Js0ujCEQ2EUqMer5nMB3Fp1KoG8/viewanalytics#21>`_,
).

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

.. admonition:: Where to get help:

    If you're having trouble going through this tutorial, please head over to
    the :doc:`Getting Help</faq/help>` section of the FAQ.

Installing the Django Debug Toolbar
===================================

A useful tool for debugging Django web applications is the Django Debug
Toolbar. It's a third-party package maintained by the `Jazzband
<https://jazzband.co>`_ organization. The toolbar helps you understand how your
application functions and to identify problems. It does so by providing panels

> that provide information about a specific system of Django applications.

Reviewer 5: I found this tricky to follow. The DDT readme has a nice description. Trying to use that here maybe something like....

```suggestion
that provide debug information about the current request/response.
```

- Cache panel: Presents you with the cache operations made and the context
  of the executions.
- Profiler panel: Presents you with a `cProfiler
  <https://docs.python.org/3/library/profile.html>`_ summary of the codes
  execution.
- Request panel: Presents you with the headers and body of a request. This
  allows you to determine what values are being sent to the Django application.
- SQL panel: Presents you with all
  the SQL queries made during the lifespan of a request.
- Templates panel: Presents you with the templates used when rendering the
  response and the context used to render them.

To install a third-party application like the toolbar, you need to install
the package by running the command within an activated virtual environment.
This is like our earlier step of :ref:`installing an official release of
Django <installing-official-release>`.

   .. console::

        $ python -m pip install django-debug-toolbar

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

:setting:`INSTALLED_APPS` setting. `The Django Debug Toolbar has many
installation steps
<https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html>`_.
We're linking to the toolbar's documentation here because as a third-party
package, it's maintained outside of the core development of Django. This
allows the package maintainers to make releases outside of Django's release
schedule

Once installed, you should be able to see the DjDT "handle" on the right side
of the browser window when you refresh the polls application.

Getting help from others
========================

At some point you will run into a problem, for example the
toolbar may not render. When this happens and you're unable to
resolve the issue yourself, there are options available to you.

#. If the problem is with a specific package, check if there's a
   troubleshooting of FAQ in the package's documentation. For example the
   Django Debug Toolbar has a `Tips section
   <https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tips.html>`_ that
   outlines troubleshooting options.
#. Consult the `Django Forum <https://forum.djangoproject.com/>`_.

> #. Join the `Django Discord server <https://discord.me/unofficial-django>`_.

Reviewer 5: I think offical docs should like to the official discord.

Author: @knyghty do you know if we can rename the discord server? Otherwise @smithdc1 we can use the invite link.

Reviewer 6: I have no idea about renaming or why it'd be needed here...? I think using an invite link is fine for now. Ideal would be to link to the landing page on discord.com - but we can't have one of those until someone (not me) makes a 1920x1080 cover image.

Author: Sorry, I included you since you are the admin on discord adding a bot.

For your suggestion of linking to the landing page, do you mean discord.com? Then the user would search for Django?

Right now the server is still called "unofficial django". The landing page for our discord server has that in the URL. Or if the user searches for it, it's named that. Since the server is now operating under the django CoC, I thought it was official. If it is, then we should probably rename it.

In the context of this PR, it's being used to indicate where else people can get help. If we can't rename it, I'll use the invite link.

Reviewer 6: Ah, ok, yeah, that isn't the same server as ours, that is indeed an unofficial one. Ours is just called Django. I don't think discord.me is anything official, so not sure where it's getting its data.

Author: I switched this to the invite link we use on djangoproject.com/

#. Join the #Django IRC channel on `Libera.chat <https://libera.chat/>`_.

Installing other third-party packages
=====================================

Another popular third-party package is `Django REST framework
<https://www.django-rest-framework.org/>`_, also known as "DRF". This is a
great package to use if you want to use your Django application in a headless
design where Django only exposes an API while the frontend of your application
is handled either in a mobile application or a JavaScript application.

There are many more third-party packages than the Django Debug Toolbar and

> Django REST framework. You can find competitors to these packages using the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Django REST framework. You can find more third-party packages using the
```
Not sure about the word competitor. Maybe...

fantastic Django resource, `Django Packages <https://djangopackages.org/>`_.

- Here's a `grid of development tool packages
  <https://djangopackages.org/grids/g/developer-tools/>`_.
- Here's a `grid of packages related to creating APIs
  <https://djangopackages.org/grids/g/api/>`_.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

Evaluating third-party packages
===============================

It can be difficult to know what third-party packages you should use. This
depends on your needs and goals. Sometimes it's fine to use a package that's
in its alpha state. Other times, you need to know it's production ready.
`Adam Johnson has a blog post
<https://adamj.eu/tech/2021/11/04/the-well-maintained-test/>`_ that outlines
a set of characteristics a that qualifies a package as "well maintained".

As Adam points out in his post, when the answer to one of the questions is
"no", that's an opportunity to contribute.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

=====================================
Writing your first Django app, part 8
=====================================

This tutorial begins where :doc:`Tutorial 7 </intro/tutorial07>` left off. We've
built our web-poll application and will now look at third-party packages. One of
Django's strengths is the rich ecosystem of third-party packages. They're

> community developed packages that can be used to quickly improve the feature-set

Reviewer 4: don't think this should be hypenated
```suggestion
community developed packages that can be used to quickly improve the feature set
```

It's a third-party package maintained by the `Jazzband
<https://jazzband.co>`_ organization. The toolbar helps you understand how your
application functions and to identify problems. It does so by providing panels
that provide debug information about the current request and response.

To install a third-party application like the toolbar, you need to install
the package by running the below command within an activated virtual
environment. This is similar to our earlier step to :ref:`install Django
<installing-official-release>`.

.. console::

    $ python -m pip install django-debug-toolbar

Third-party packages that integrate with Django need some post-installation
setup to integrate them with your project. Often you will need to add the
package's Django app to your :setting:`INSTALLED_APPS` setting. Some packages
need other changes, like additions to your URLconf (``urls.py``).

Django Debug Toolbar requires several setup steps. Follow them in `its
installation guide
<https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html>`_.
The steps are not duplicated in this tutorial, because as a third-party
package, it may change separately to Django's schedule.

> Once installed, you should be able to see the DjDT "handle" on the right side
> of the browser window when you refresh the polls application.

Reviewer 4: Currently the tutorial basically ends here - install and see DjDT. We should say "click to open" otherwise it doesn't seem like the toolbar does much 😅

```suggestion
Once installed, you should be able to see the DjDT "handle" on the right side
of the browser window when you refresh the polls application. Click it to
open the debug toolbar and use the tools in each panel. See the `panels
documentation page
<https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/panels.html>`__ for
more information on what the panels show.
```

   Django Debug Toolbar has a `Tips section
   <https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tips.html>`_ that
   outlines troubleshooting options.
#. Search for similar issues on the package's issue tracker. Django Debug
   Toolbar’s is `on GitHub <https://github.com/jazzband/django-debug-toolbar/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc>`_.
#. Consult the `Django Forum <https://forum.djangoproject.com/>`_.
#. Join the `Django Discord server <https://discord.gg/xcRH6mN4fa>`_.
#. Join the #Django IRC channel on `Libera.chat <https://libera.chat/>`_.

Installing other third-party packages
=====================================

There are many more third-party packages, which you can find using the
fantastic Django resource, `Django Packages <https://djangopackages.org/>`_.

It can be difficult to know what third-party packages you should use. This
depends on your needs and goals. Sometimes it's fine to use a package that's
in its alpha state. Other times, you need to know it's production ready.
`Adam Johnson has a blog post
<https://adamj.eu/tech/2021/11/04/the-well-maintained-test/>`_ that outlines

> a set of characteristics a that qualifies a package as "well maintained".

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
a set of characteristics a that qualifies a package as "well maintained".
Django Packages shows data for some of these characteristics, such as when the
package was last updated.
```
